now a group of activists has been
protesting near an international airport
in Western Ireland which they say is
being used to transport weapons to
Israel Shannon Airport is regularly used
by the US Air Force as a stopover for
carrying military personnel and
Equipment across the Atlantic the
demonstrators say the planes need to be
more thoroughly checked for Israel bound
arms okay let's speak to Zoe laa who's
the chairperson of the Ireland Palestine
solidarity campaign she joins us now
from Shannon in Ireland a very warm
welcome to you so the Irish government
has been very very vocal in its support
for the Palestinians recently of course
recognizing Palestinian statehood but
when it comes to the use of shann and
Airport though you believe there are
serious shortfalls what are you
particularly angry
about well for years we've called for an
end to the US military use of Shannon
Airport um in any circumstance
um we've also called for inspection of
the planes that go through Shannon
Airport because we don't know what's on
them and the Irish government takes the
US uh government say so that there are
no there's no Weaponry on the planes um
but especially since the Israel's
genocide in Gaza um and the US is an
active um participant in this genocide
uh so we want primarily the US military
out of Shannon H but at the very least
the very minimum we want the Irish
government government be inspecting the
planes I'm just struggling to understand
how we Square what's coming out of the
mouths of the t-shock in Dublin speaking
openly and solidarity the PO of the
Palestinians and and what's happening at
at Shannon Airport I mean does this
amount to double
standards oh absolutely and it's not
just Shannon I mean the Irish government
um talks a good game and they make
strong statements and um Simon Harris or
tiak has repeatedly said you know we
must use every lever at our dis proposal
to ensure ceasefire and uh to stop the
genocide but in fact the Irish
government is not taking um practical
action uh to sanction Israel um it's
blocking legislation that we have that
would go some way to holding Israel
accountable such as the um occupied
territories Bill the illegal Israeli
settlements divestment bill and the arms
embargo Bill uh we continue to trade
with Israel and the US military uses
Shannon Airport and then recently we've
had uh reports of multiple um planes
flying um Weaponry through Irish
airspace uh to Israel uh so yes it is a
complete double standard and that's of
the key demands of the Ireland Palestine
solidarity campaign and also the huge uh
mobilizations in Ireland is for Action
from our government Zoe let's talk about
practical steps what do you want to see
happen specifically at Shannon
Airport uh specifically we want the
planes inspected as a very minimum um we
want but we want the US military H not
to be using the airport like it's a
civilian airport um it's a small airport
and it has been used by the US military
for 20 plus years um and even Amnesty
International has said there was
probable rendition of people through
Shannon Airport uh over the years so
really uh Ireland is a supposedly
neutral country um the majority of
people in Ireland don't want Shannon
Airport used uh by uh the US Military
and especially now uh in this genocide
uh you mentioned Ireland of course being
a neutral country as it has been for
many many years I mean what is it though
however about Irish American relations
that means Irish political parties of
most colors have allowed this continue
to continue over the years what's the
political and the financial
incentive well I guess on a political
level I mean we certainly know that H
it's very high priority um High cache I
suppose for Irish um government um
members uh to visit the White House on
St Patrick's Day um despite our calls
for years that they should never uh do
that um I they talk about us Finance or
investment in Ireland and that this is a
barrier towards taking action but really
I I think that's just an excuse um
because I think industry does what's
profitable regardless of the political
uh context that they're operating in um
and I think some of it is just just
wanting to you know that kind of being a
bit beholden to us interests and wanting
to be seen the similar with how we
behave in the EU H wanting to be seen as
you know the Best in Class H and not
really to rock the boat and we want the
opposite we want the Irish government to
you know put its money where its mouth
is and like actually back up the words
that they H are uttering all right zo
laa really interesting hearing your
thoughts on all that zo laa there
chairperson of the Ireland Palestine
solidarity campaign many
thanks thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer